Hello and welcome everyone to this
week's stellar developer meeting.
today in the studio I have  Vivo from
today in the studio I have Vivo from
Halaps and he's going to give a super
exciting demo of the pro current
progress of the scaffold stellar. So
please introduce yourself and yeah give
us a little bit of  just a small
us a little bit of just a small
introduction to what is scaffold stella
to those who have not  played around
to those who have not played around
with it yet or haven't heard a lot about
it. So yeah
>> awesome. Yeah thanks so much Carson. So
hey guys I'm Fifo  I'm work at a labs.
hey guys I'm Fifo I'm work at a labs.
I'm a principal engineer there and I'll
be presenting the scaffold stellar.
for those that don't know about it, it's
basically it it includes a CLI and a
base project in which you can  start
base project in which you can start
developing on stellar and sorban in a
very easy way. You can think of it as an
all-in-one repo and a lot of very
helpful tooling around it for you to to
build your contracts, deploy, test it,
have your own environment configuring
the way they best suit your application
and really move fast at these initial
process and the whole  the whole
process and the whole the whole
development cycle. So, I'm very excited
to share this with you guys.
>> Yeah. And when when I heard about the
>> Yeah. And when when I heard about the
project for the first time, I thought
this is a great way if you're new to
Stellar, great way to get started. It
has a lot of cool plugins. But as as I
dig deeper into it, even as a more
experienced developer, I actually see a
lot of benefits from from using this to
kind of bootstrap my my application if I
want to try something new or build
something where I don't want to spend a
lot of time on setting up my environment
and do do basic stuff. So this
especially I think some of the open
sllin integrations are super exciting as
well. So so I the more I look into it
the more I think this this is not only
cool for new developers actually also
more experienced developers who just
want to get going and build something
without spending a lot of time on on
setting up their environment.
>> Exactly. I I think you said it all and
it's what I think it's great about it is
that it helps not just new developers
that are coming to the ecosystem and
don't really know Stellar that well. So
they might have like those common
initial hurdles when starting projects
and and start playing around but it also
helps like seasoned developers that know
the ecosystem because you can really
customize stuff around to make like work
in the way you feel more comfortable and
can really move fast and try things
really fast. So I I love it. I've been
working ser for for for some time and
I've missed this kind of tool in the
past.
>> Yeah. And that's that's one of the
things that I really like about it
because all of you guys who are working
on this building this you're very you're
very experienced on on the Stella
platform and and you make things very
customizable customizable so you can set
it up and you can customize your
settings your features what you want to
include. So so it's it's nice to see
that more experienced developer approach
to it as well.  but you don't have to
to it as well. but you don't have to
set up a lot of stuff if you just want
to get started and want to play with it
out of the box. But  but let's
out of the box. But but let's
let's get into it and and and see what
what you guys have been working on.
>> Awesome. Awesome. Just double checking.
Can you guys see my screen? Is
everything okay?
>> Awesome. So sometime people's
>> Awesome. So sometime people's
complain that my my monitor has like big
resolutions. If things are too small,
just let me know. I can I can increase
it a little further. So I'll just start
with with the basic. Here you're seeing
the the link to Stellar CLI and I'll
take these steps back and start from the
very beginning. So if you're a new
developer coming to the ecosystem  not
developer coming to the ecosystem not
sure if you heard it up it already but
Stellar CLI it's a great tool everyone
should have it and it's the the starting
point for what we're doing here. So I
recommend you go here to to Stellar
Stellar CLI get the CLI installed and
we'll start with it. So Stellar CLI has
a lot of very very exciting features.
You can manage accounts. You can spin up
your own container with a local network.
You can do a bunch of of really cool
stuff. But the nice thing that just came
in recently and a lot of people might
not have realized in in in past
releases is that now we have plugins for
the CLI. So if you have the CLI
installed and you just go ahead and hit
stellar  stellar space plugin and
stellar stellar space plugin and
let's call search, you'll be able to
search for plugins that are are
published in the ecosystem and that can
be installed on the CLI. So the idea
behind that is that different projects
might have specific needs or might look
for more personalized tooling for what
they're building and this way you can
really customize your experience around
it. So what we're seeing here is
basically it went through repositories
that have a specific tag it looks for. I
mean these were
>> zoom in a little bit. It's it's a little
bit hard to see.
>> Yes, absolutely. Yeah. Is it better like
that? Like that it's huge my screen.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Now it's now it's
really good. It's very easy to see.
>> Awesome. Awesome. So basically it just
found for hits and it's looking on
GitHub for a specific tag to indicate
this is a plug-in for the CLI and we can
see a bunch of interesting stuff
already. So there is the scaffold
stellar it's in a repository called a
lababscaffold stellar there's also you
can see the contract bindings there is
the open zeppelink upgrader so the cla
for for contracts and we should be
seeing a lot of a lot more exciting
stuff coming next so for this demo
we'll go with the scaffold stellar I
already have it installed I'll just open
the repo here you can access  github
the repo here you can access github
and iabscaffoldstellar
and you can go through the instructions
here to It's very simple. Just cargo
install and you have the CLI. I already
have it here. So, it's probably just
Yeah, there you go. I have P V P V P V P
V P V P V P V P V P V P V 005.  we
V P V P V P V P V P V P V 005. we
also have the registry which is
something really exciting but I won't be
focusing too much on this on this on
this demo in function of time. So, I
think we can have subsequent sessions
just to go deeper into some of the
features that won't be here. I'll try to
focus more on initializing the the
project and and playing around with it.
So, I have it installed. Once you have
the plug-in installed, you can access
those through the stellar CLA directly.
So I'll go with stellar scaffold. Just
hit h to see the help and you get a
bunch of new commands with the this
plug-in. So in it will allows you allow
you to start a new project from scratch
and it comes with this pretty exciting
model repo that you can manage your
contracts. You can build the contracts,
generate the clients, have you have a
front end that's ready to interact and
integrate with these clients. So it's
really neat. You have a build a build
function that not just builds the
contract but also runs certain routines
that I'll be showing afterwards that are
associated with the configuration you
have in your environment. You have also
the generate command which allows you to
generate new  contracts. So these
generate new contracts. So these
allow you to go through  through the
allow you to go through through the
open Zeppelink examples and it can send
you to the to the open Zeppelin wizard
and there's a bunch of new stuff coming
in the future as well.  you can
in the future as well. you can
upgrade existing repositories for the
scaffold turning into your your
workspace into a scaffold project.
there's the update just to update your
environments in in your in your working
space and also watch which  I'll be
space and also watch which I'll be
using a lot in this demo that builds
everything and keep watching for changes
on both sides. So both the contracts and
also the front end. So for this let's go
ahead and and start new project. I'll
just go with  stellar scaffold in it
just go with stellar scaffold in it
and let's call it  demo 10. I think I
and let's call it demo 10. I think I
have a bunch of demos already in this
folder because I was playing with this
throughout these past few days. Let's
just see. Yes, cd. I'll just open this
new project. And you can see here that
it downloaded  the repository from
it downloaded the repository from
scaffold stellar front end. So if you
want to have a look at these or even
submit  PRs if you find anything to
submit PRs if you find anything to
improve feel free to do that. So I'll go
ahead and see the demo. I'm in the in
the folder and let me open it with VS
Code. So there's my VS Code. Let me just
position it here and really increase
this so you guys can see what's going
on. So all right, starting in this new
repo. What do I have in here? What where
is this structure? What am I seeing in
this? So just a quick walk through what
you're seeing here on top you have a
folder for contracts and this is
basically where your contracts are going
to live. They are following this format
in which you have a directory for each f
for each contract you have the cargo
tommo source and out of the bat you can
see we have three examples.  this is
see we have three examples. this is
something that as is in this current
format and also it's important to bring
the disclaimer that everything here is a
work in progress. This is very recent.
So if you see any bugs or anything that
we could be improved, feel free to to to
share your feedback. We appreciate and
there's definitely a lot of stuff that
will be iterating and improving over the
the new releases, the following
releases. So you see under contracts
here, I have a funible token from the
demos. I have a hello world example and
I have the NFT innumerable which is also
different example of contract. So
contracts is where your rust code
exists. This is all a big workspace and
you can see  the the source code
you can see the the source code
directly. If you scroll a little bit,
you see packages. Right now, this is
empty. So where is this packages folder?
The idea is that as I'm building these
contracts, we are automatically
going through our configuration and
deploying these contracts and generating
the TypeScript binds. So we are creating
clients for these in Typescript and
putting those in this folder. So all the
clients that are generated for the
contracts will come to the package
folder and that's where they're going to
be accessed from. So if I go down below
you'll see that we also have a front end
here. So this is a this is a ReactJS
with TypeScript and D and here in this
front end basically it is a a very
bare bones and simple front end to start
playing with your contract. But it also
includes some some interesting thing the
bat. You're going to see it has some
providers and some hooks that you can
use in your application and you can see
the actual implementation we have in
place to play around with those.  you
place to play around with those. you
also have the contracts folder which for
now it's empty but as soon as I start
building the the contracts you see it's
being populated with the clients for
each contract and you have the debug
folder which is this  interesting
folder which is this interesting
contract explorer that is very similar
to what we have in stellar lab and I'll
get into more details in a second. So
for now it's bare bones. We don't have
anything. So what can we do? What can we
start doing with this?  the first
start doing with this? the first
step, let me go ahead and just open the
rhymi here. And it suggests us to start
with this copying the amp. So I'll just
copy the example end. Now we have the
end. And this is basically telling us
which environment are we using. This is
where our front end is going to look
when connecting to our RPC and to our
horizon. Oh, and I didn't mention what I
actually Let me just show here because
I'm so used to have this up and running.
I'm already running my local image of
the the the quick start. So if you never
heard of it, if you don't you don't know
what it is, basically in the stellar
CLI, you have a container. You can run
stellar container start and you start
this container locally, a docker
container with an image that has all
that you need to run stellar locally. So
you have your own node running locally
from scratch pream pristine node
history. You have your own RPC. You have
your own horizon. You you have your
friend bot. So it's really handy.
right now  I'll be using it to connect
right now I'll be using it to connect
and deploying everything locally in my
environment. And just an example  I
environment. And just an example I
was showing the the the commands from
the from the scaffold CLI. So I'll just
to show you these relationship between
contracts and packages. I'll go ahead
and just run a build so you can see how
it does.  basically if I access
it does. basically if I access
stellar
scaffold
build  let me just do the the help so
build let me just do the the help so
you can see all the options. So
basically you can build for a specific
amp and it's going to look for this
stellar scaffold and which points to
which environment you are building your
contracts.  I have mine already set
contracts. I have mine already set
here to development. So you can build
your contracts for for different
environments. And what these are doing
is that they are also looking into this
file over here. This environment to this
is very important for this scaffold
project because this defines how you're
handling this environment. So I I
suggest you all have a look and play
around. There's a ton of comments here
to guide you through this configuration.
But in short summary, what you're seeing
is you have three main environments. You
see here we have a development
environment with the configuration for
the RPC that we'll be using the
passphrase  setting up to run
passphrase setting up to run
automatically. So when this flag is set
for example and I'm running npm rundev,
it's going to automatically start the
container for me. So I don't have to do
that or in case I forget. I do this all
the time whenever I'm working on my
projects.  you also have some other
projects. you also have some other
configuration around the accounts. So
this is also very neat. I'll get to into
more details but important things here
is that you also have other
environments. You have the staging
environment. You have the production
environment. So normally you would have
development pointing to local. You would
have staging pointing to test net or
future net. And then you'd have
production pointing to mainet. So I
won't make any changes right now just to
show you guys. If I run the command to
scaff  stellar scaffold build with the
scaff stellar scaffold build with the
flag  build clients.
flag build clients.
there you go. It's  it's starting
there you go. It's it's starting
to run. You see that it's doing a lot of
stuff. Let me just break it down for
you. So basically what it's going
through it's going through all my
contracts building each one of those. As
they're building the contracts they're
also looking at these environments to
see what I have set up here. So
important pieces. So first thing you'll
notice you have this development.ac
accounts which defines which accounts
are going to be used and by default you
have this with an account called me and
the full true. What does that mean? That
means that if you're familiar with the
stellar CLI you have the stellar keys
which allow you to if I just hit ls here
I can you can see the keys I have. It
allow you to manage key pairs directly
from the CLI. So you can create new key
pairs, you can initialize these accounts
and you can use these accounts to run
transactions directly through the CLI.
So the nice thing here is that as you
set these accounts here automatically
doing the build, it's going to identify
if I have an account called me or not.
And in case I don't, it's going to
create this account and initialize it
for me. And with the default equals true
flag, it is going to use this account to
deploy the contracts as the source of
the transactions. So for example, if you
are spinning up a bunch of contracts
which have the same admin, you could set
up this as the admin account and have
the admin deploy all the contracts.
down below you have here also the
development contracts which specifies
which contracts the build command should
should build for these
environments. So here for example it
comes out of the bat already
preconfigured with the contracts we have
here as examples. So you have the hello
world and this  inline syntax saying
world and this inline syntax saying
that I want to generate the client for
it. So basically the hello world down
below we have the funible token which
also is generating the clients but you
can see down below it has something
else. You can already set the
constructor args directly into this
format and you can use the accounts that
are specified on top to be used
parameters as arguments. So here it's
already invoking the constructor
arguments sorry the constructor function
for my funible token setting the owner
as the MI account and an initial supply
and the same thing for the NFT contract
as well. It's set in the owner and you
can also play around with these because
you can add post  initialization
you can add post initialization
commands. So you can have for example
this after deploy and you can chain new
commands after everything is deployed if
you want to run a specific
configuration. So let's say that after
deploying everything and initializing
the contract you already want out of the
bat to mint some units to send to some
accounts to send around some tokens. So
you can do that very easily. So you see
a lot of stuff ran here. Actually I
ended up jumping a few steps. So  we
ended up jumping a few steps. So we
just have the the the contracts and the
packages and you can see those were
generated based on the contracts we have
specified here. So all of the TypeScript
packages and this also filled in the
contracts for my front end. So we can
start playing with this front end. All
right. So let's let's get back to
repository. I just initialized this
project. What are the steps that I need
to do as a fresh project? So we just
copied the MV. Now what we need to do,
we need to install the dependencies
because we have a bunch of  of
because we have a bunch of of
dependencies that we are going to need
for example to run the concurrency and
so on. So npmi just run the
installation. Wait a little bit.
Let's just close this other one for a
second. Okay, everything's installed.
What is the next step? npm rundev. So as
you run npm rundev, you see a lot of
things going on here. And this is where
I think the magic lies. So, and yeah,
run that. And a lot of stuff is running.
I'll just go back and show you as it's
scrolling down. So, you see that out of
the bat, it starts  concurrently two
the bat, it starts concurrently two
commands. It starts stellar scaffold
watch with the build client flag and
also vit. So, these go two are running
in separate process. You can see right
away that vit's running here on number
one and on number zero. You can see the
whole building  the building
whole building the building
commands that I that I showed before. So
I'll go ahead and click here to open the
front end. It's already there. And let
me just see if it finished building
everything we had already built. So it's
basically just repeated everything. But
there we go. We have our front end. All
right. It's a very simple one.  it
right. It's a very simple one. it
starts with some instructions telling
you what you can do and how you can do.
But let me just break it down what
you're seeing here in your interface.
back.  first thing you notice it came
back. first thing you notice it came
automatically connected to my account.
Why is that FIFO? Well, that's mainly
because I have been using this already
and  we we we have some account
and we we we have some account
management  logic here that stores
management logic here that stores
locally in the local storage the account
that is last connected. So once you come
back it's going to identify it has been
connected and just reused that one. But
I can just come on top here and switch
accounts like or I can come here click
on  something. There you go. Click and
on something. There you go. Click and
disconnect if you want to see what is
the the fresh start for the first time
you access.  what is important to note
you access. what is important to note
here here I'm using freighter and if
you're using freighter you should set it
to a custom network because I'm using
the local one. So if you never done that
in the past you go to settings navigate
to network and you can set here a custom
network. If you're running on test net
or mainet you're good to go because you
can simply select the networks that
you're running. But in case of a custom
one, you just need to input the same
parameters we have in the end. So what
is your RPC URL? What is your  horizon
is your RPC URL? What is your horizon
URL? What is the passphrase and allow
for HTTP connections?  there is
for HTTP connections? there is
something on my my my local environment
here and I'm still trying to figure out
what is going on. But sometimes it
struggles with freighter and it doesn't
show up the the proper balance. But I
see it's something related specifically
to this to this environment I'm running.
But it's it's going to work. Everything
is fine. I'll be showing to you guys.
So, if I click here on connect, you see
that we're using the Stellar wallet kit.
This is a nice library we have in the
ecosystem, which basically connects to
several different wallets  in the
several different wallets in the
ecosystems and it's just one integration
you make and you're good to go. So, here
I have these two wallets installed
here, but it supports way more wallets.
I'll just go with Freder. And wait a
second. Did I click it? Oh, something's
going on. What happened? Oh, there you
go. Not sure what happened. I think my
my my computer is frying because
everything just slowed down. Oh my god.
I'm not sure what's going on. Let me
just double check if it's there's an
issue here. Right is not available. Oh,
what is going on? Did my did my plugin
just just die?
Oh, what the hell happened here?
Let me just Yeah, I should definitely
open the tickets with Fred. Let me just
try and
kill everything from scratch. Oh, no. I
can't do that. Otherwise, I'll be out of
the session. Let me just try it again
once. , is there a way I can maybe
restart the extension?
, where is Can I just do this and
bring it back?
Let me see.
Oh, there you go. It's popping me for
my password. Is this correct? There you
go. Okay, I think it's going on now. Not
sure what's going on. I'll definitely
open a ticket for for the demo gods
blessing us.
Okay, so I connected my freighter
wallet. What you see here, it
automatically brings the balance and we
have this small indicator here in the
top  which checks what is the
top which checks what is the
environment that you have set here in
your local environment and it indicates
if you're connected to that or in case
you're not in case I'm connected to test
net for example in the wallet it's going
to to throw a different message and
indicator just so you know that you're
not in the intended environment because
we want these front ends to be built for
a specific environment. So here I'm
connected with my FIFO wallet and there
you go. What can I do FIFO? What can
this front end do for me? What can I
what can I use this for? So the nice
thing starts once we click on this
button over at the top. So if you're
familiar with stellar lab the
laboratory. You have a functionality
there called  I think it's called
there called I think it's called
contract explorer as well that has the
invoke contract tab. Basically what we
did is that we ported a good part of
that implementation over to here. And a
big shout out to to to to the team from
from Stellar Lab that helped us through
the process.
And what you're seeing here is that as I
open my front end, it automatically goes
through my packages and the contracts I
have here. They load the clients, they
load the wasmas, they bring the whole
spec for the client and show me this
interface which allows me to directly
interact with the contract in my local
environment. So what you're seeing here
are the three contracts I have here. I
can simply click and switch which
contract I'm interact with and I can
start  invoking transaction invoking
start invoking transaction invoking
functions from here. So I'll just go and
and show some examples. Let's go through
the hello world. And if we check the
hello world contract, basically what it
does is that it has this hello function
which receives an argument for two and
say hello  hello to the two arguments.
say hello hello to the two arguments.
So I'll go ahead and just say fo and
since I have my account connected I can
both simulate or submit. I'll break
those into details. So I'll start just
with simulate. If I click simulate it's
basically running the simulation of the
transaction. And you see some stuff
already changed. So okay, what changed
here? First thing is it is using my
account that is connected here as the
source account of the transaction and is
simulating an invocation with the
parameters that I'm putting here.  you
parameters that I'm putting here. you
can see on top that it it showed this
flag to indicate it is a read
invocation. So that means that if I go
ahead and submit this invocation to to
the network and it is processed, there's
no change in state. We're not changing
any state of the contract. So there's no
real reason to actually submit and pay
for the fees. If we just want to fetch
some value or see some result, we can
just simulate and see the result which
is what we have down below. Here we have
the response and the result of the
simulation. So it is a successful one
and you can click here on show details
and you expand the whole view and you
have the entire response. So if you
scroll down if you're familiar with
this, you see that we have these results
object and here we can see the the
return value. So it's saying hello FIFO
with the parameter that I I use. So if I
say something different like hello John
I'll simulate again. Show the details.
Go down below and there you go. Hello
John. Awesome. What else can you do?
let's try a different thing.  let's
let's try a different thing. let's
for example let's  switch here and
for example let's switch here and
make a new function and let's make some
changes. Let's store a value. So, I
think things start to get interesting as
you start playing with your contracts
and and and change things around. So,
I'll just store let's say  what can we
I'll just store let's say what can we
send here? Let's send an address. So,
let's send an address
and it's  address  we don't return
and it's address we don't return
anything and we'll just store these in
the in the storage. So just go ahead. M
do storage. Oh, there you go. Copilot.
Let me just double check. Set. No, this
is wrong. This is wrong. Damn it.
Copilot. So storage instance. Let's use
instance for now. Is I have cold hands.
instance set. Okay.  let's use a
instance set. Okay. let's use a
simple key. So single short. I think I
might have to import this single short.
Let's just call my key for now. And the
value will be the address that we're
sending.
Okay, let me just save. Let's see. Where
am I? Oh, this should be  There you
am I? Oh, this should be There you
go. Let me just save it again. I think
this is good to go. Let's wait a little
bit. You see that as soon as I'm saving
everything is running again. So, it's
watching for changes in real time. And
as it identifies that I changed the the
the the contract and it builds and it
notices that was different. Then it runs
the whole routine. So it redeploys,
reinitializes. And this is very very
powerful because it means that as I'm
making changes, it's identifying when
it's relevant and it redeploys. It
regenerates everything. And if you paid
attention, you should have seen that the
front end already updated here on the
side. So I already have the starv
showing up in here. So that's really
neat because it means that as I'm making
changes, I can already invoke from the
front end. So the star val here allow me
to send an address. So I'll just copy my
on address from here. We should
definitely add the copy button here. So
I'll just paste it here. I'll simulate.
I see that I can send it. I can submit
this. But if you notice here on top now,
the badge is slightly different. Let me
close this. You see now it indicates
it's a right invocation. So this means
that based on this simulation if I
submit this  I'll be changing some
submit this I'll be changing some
value and storing some value in the
contract. So I'll go ahead I'll click in
submit and it's popping me up to sign.
this is just because of the the issue
I mentioned here in my environment. It
sometimes don't know I have balance but
there you go it was executed and here it
is. This is this oh damn it one password
it's going to be popping up. So what
you're seeing here is the result of the
submission and this is is slightly
different. So it has the same compact
version but I can click on details and I
can expand. Oh should I just close this?
Can I just Yeah, let me just finish it.
There you go. One password. So what
you're seeing here as the the summary
you have the hash of the transaction
have the ledger number for when it was
processed. you have the transaction
envelope in XDR, but you can also click
here and quickly switch to JSON and view
the the JSON  version of this object.
the the JSON version of this object.
The same thing for the result. You can
convert it to JSON and so on. So, this
is really nice. Okay. Oh, did it just
reopen? That's awful. Okay. Oh, it's
because of this one. Let me just  how
because of this one. Let me just how
can I can I just disable it? Let me just
go to the extensions real quick and
disable this guy so it doesn't pop up on
our face. Okay, I was talking about the
submission. So, I just submitted made a
change. What else is important to
highlight here as you're playing with
these contracts and and you might have
noticed already all of the functions are
loaded here with their specific
arguments and the specific types that
these arguments are in. So for example,
if you're looking here to the hello, it
expects an SC string. So it's only
accepting strings. So  as I'm typing
accepting strings. So as I'm typing
here, it's validating the the the input
that I'm providing. So for example, here
it expects an address for the store. If
I put anything else other than an
address,
you'll see that it's validating and
telling me, hey, this is not a public
key or a contract ID. So it needs to be
a valid address. And you should see this
for all of your functions, all of the
the known types. So if you go here over
the funible token for example, you see
we have all of these types indicated
here along with the fields. So we have
here I 128 and so on. And for functions
that don't have like arguments don't
expect arguments you just see this
compact version. So you can just check
and simulate like hey is this paused?
yes it's not paused returns false.
Awesome. This is really useful.
Okay what else? What what else can we
see here? Let me take a step back and
see what I took notes. See if I'm not
forgetting anything. Oh, yes. As you're
seeing here on top, we have the name of
the contract and the contract ID. You
can just copy it if you're playing
around making direct invocations in the
in the CLI, but you can also click here
on show details. And that's very
interesting. So, what you're seeing here
is the additional data about this
contract. So here you have the contract
was hash if you want to play with the
deployed was version.  you also have
deployed was version. you also have
the contract metadata and if you're not
familiar with with what is the contract
metadata you can just come here and
click to see the documentation and read
a little bit more but in essence these
are some some some some pieces of data
that are automatically embedded into the
was that included into the the was
during the compilation but you can also
add your own custom metadata depending
on what you want to  send to to the to
on what you want to send to to the to
the to the deployed  version of the
the to the deployed version of the
contract. So basically what we're doing
here is that in this front end once we
are going through the the our clients
and identifying that we have clients for
these contracts we are also getting
their wasmas getting the was hash
getting the wasmas and  decoding the
getting the wasmas and decoding the
was to extract this metadata
automatically. So if you connect for
example this to contract deploying test
net this is also going to work and pull
all of the metadata related to that
contract. Let's just go ahead and make
some changes and add some metadata to
this contract. So let's go into this
hello world contract. It has just the
basic metadata here indicating the
version, the SDK version, the protocol
version and release. So I'll just go
ahead and there are a few ways in which
you can do this. One that is very simple
is directly through the tommo file. So
I'll just copy here and go to the tommo
file and I'll add this section here for
package metadata.stellar.
And we have some some some  some
And we have some some some some
different properties here basically
indicating this is a contract. I have
some custom ones like I have my custom
string fu my custom boot through. We
have authors we have the repository the
homepage and all of these are going to
be baked into the contract during the
build. You can also beyond this you can
also come here and this is something you
can do in your own contracts which is to
use the macro  contract contract
use the macro contract contract
matter there you go let me just make
sure it's imported and for contract
matter all you need to do is to form a
key which I'll just say my
my key that's more than enough and a
value so for the value I'll just call
I'll just say fifu
oh yeah there we go. Let me just save
it will also rerun everything. So let's
just wait a little bit and as it's doing
basically everything is going to be
included into the was during the
compilation and once we load it in the
front end we are going to decode from
the wasp and and and present it show in
the front end. So I think everything has
run here. Let me just go and there you
go. You see we have a bunch of new stuff
popping up now. So all the keys that I
have included through the tommo plus the
key I included here. So let me just see
my key foil here on top is of type meta
entry. We have the other traditional
ones. We have the outs that came from
the tommo. We have contract true the
home domain and so on. So that's very
powerful and if you want to reuse this
in your project you can just grab these
components and reusing the front end
app. And in the same way way something
that we we were conscious about here is
that all of this contract explorer
capability and and functionality is not
something that you want to ship to your
production environment for example. So
everything that you see related to this
page is tightly organized within the
debug directory. So you can easily just
delete this this debug directory and
extract everything and you'll be have a
clean project. And also if you want to
just reuse some bits, you can just go
select the components and reuse those in
your project. So moving forward, okay,
we made some changes.  I updated the
we made some changes. I updated the
metadata. What else can we do? So you
remember I was telling you about the
environments and let me just go ahead
here and find the file environments.
which is the file that allows us to make
some  configuration about the
some configuration about the
environment we're working on. So I'll
just go ahead here and have a look at
the NFT one. And for the NFT one, we see
that all it has said is we have we want
to we want to build clients for this
contract and we also are constructing
this with me the MI account as the
owner. So what if we also wanna let's
say men some some units of it. So let me
go ahead and grab this which is the
example we have here and I basically am
going to add a after deploy and here we
can just chain different commands we
want to run after the deploy. So here in
this example I'll just going go around
and but let me see what is the actual
syntax for this contract. NFT
innumerable
contract and the constructor. Okay,
so it's a nouner and it's an address. So
that's where sorry not the constructor,
the mint. So it's two and an address.
There we go. Let me go to the
environments. So mint two and then an
address. I'll just delete this. I just
give the name of the the address and
there you go. It should be able as I
make new deployments, it should be able
to do it. Now, even though it's running,
I didn't change anything in the
contract. So, it's not going to identify
changes in the was. So, it's not going
to deploy a new was for me. So, I'll
just go ahead and make a change to this
contract. So, one thing that we can take
advantage of this update and I already
highlighted that we can also add rest
docs here as comments. So for example we
can say that this  no it doesn't
can say that this no it doesn't
returns the owner the contract no
copilot this is a mint a new token to
specified address color must be and so
on okay this is good enough let me just
leave these two lines so once we have
these docs  on top of the functions
these docs on top of the functions
and we save these are going to be
included in the w and in the spec of the
contract. So when we are loading the
front end, we are going to identify this
and show those alongside with the
functions. So let's just wait a second.
It's running everything. You should be
seeing this sometimes blinking a little
bit. This means that there's a lot of
stuff going on and the the vit is
watching for these changes and just
updating everything. So running. I'll
just for let me just double check.
I think everything executed. Let me just
have a look.  it's the enumerable.
have a look. it's the enumerable.
Let me just see if Oh yeah, got to have
a look why it didn't just up there
automatically. But there it is.  I put
automatically. But there it is. I put
it into into lines. This is very small.
It should expand a little bit further.
So a lot of stuff to take notes as
improvements, but basically it brings
the the rust doc here. We have some
indications and it's going to always
show up with the the functions that that
they are attached to. So, okay, I added
the step to mint and and and already
send that to the address which is what
is the name of the address? Me. So, let
me go ahead and get this address. What
is the key? So, stellar keys  public
is the key? So, stellar keys public
key me. No, isn't that Oh, I added a a K
and again a typo. Oh, yeah, but it
worked. So, this is the MI account. So
let me check if it has a balance.
Simulate. There you go. We see read
successful. Let me check the balance.
And it has. Here it is. Return value. It
has. It has a balance of one one NFT. So
if I check I think we have another
function here owner off and the token
ID. So we know that this is the
sequential token. So the token number
zero will be the first one. Yes, I can
simulate and see that the owner
is the address of my admin. Some other
stuff you could be doing and it's very
helpful here. So, I use this key, but
sometimes I don't have those in my my
wallets. So, you can use stellar keys to
also  grab the private keys and import
also grab the private keys and import
in your wallets if you want to run some
functions for example from the admin
perspective. So I'll go with stellar
keys  secret if I'm not mistaken me.
keys secret if I'm not mistaken me.
There you go. That's the secret of the
MI account. So I'll just go ahead and
freighter.
And for freighter we have here you click
on this icon on top. You see your
accounts and you can easily click on
import secret key. I just paste it. And
remember if you're seeing the secret key
publicly in this recording you should be
using this for real because this has
been exposed. Let me just put my
password. And don't forget to click on
this checkbox and I'll just import it.
There you go. AM2 I. Yes, that's
correct. That's the account. All right.
So, I'm connected with my admin now. So,
if I want to play around and I want to
make  transactions or means from the
make transactions or means from the
perspective of the owner, I can do that.
So, I just go ahead for example, grab
the address of a different one which is
my FIFO account. I'll just come here,
copy, and again switch to my admin,
which is this one. And let me mint a
token to my FIFO account. There we go.
And one important thing here, you notice
that right away I can click on submit.
You don't have to manually simulate. You
can always simulate to see beforehand
what will be the the outcome if it is
likely to fail or not. But you can just
come here and directly click on submit
and it's going to run the whole
workflow. So it's going to configure the
transaction, simulate it, check the
result, prepare the transaction, sign,
and then submit. So I will just click on
submit. You'll be prompted to to to
reveal and sign, approve and continue.
Yes, that's correct. Sign transaction.
And there you go. It was successfully
executed. So, if I grab my FIFO account
here now and check for the balance
and simulate, I should be able to see
that it holds a token. Oops. Oops. Too
much scroll. There you go. Return value
number one. It means it's hold holding
one NFD. And if I check for the owner of
the number one,
let me see. Show details. Who is owning
the NFT number one? There you go. The
FIFA account. Awesome. Awesome. Okay,
Fifo, but you're just showing the
examples we have here. You just made
small tweaks. What else can we do? What
else is in there for us? So, another
nice thing that I want to show here
today is the generate. So, if you go to
let me just close let me stop this for a
while and close this one so you guys can
see this. , let me just go to stellar
scaffold
again. Show the commands. These are the
commands we have. I want to show you the
generate one. So the generate one is to
generate new contracts in this
repository. So let me go ahead stellar
scaffold generate and let me see the
options we have here. So basically
sorry I I can generate contracts. So
generate contract h and there you go. So
the options I have here I can clone one
of the examples existing in the open
zapping repository. And if you're not
familiar let me just make sure I have it
here.  this is the repository. It's
here. this is the repository. It's
managed by open zapling. They have some
very nice examples over here that you
can have a look. So basically you can
choose any one of those and directly
clone into the to the repository.  you
clone into the to the repository. you
also have the option to list the
existing ones which will show the list
of the ones in the examples. You can
also go to the wizard. So it's going to
pop up. Let me show you. If you hit
contract,
oops,
from wizard,
it pops up the wizard from open zap
link. So, this is a really nice wizard
that allows you to combine different
features. So, I want to make a token
that is mintable and it's burnable and
pausible. So, it adds all of these
characteristics and all the markers and
you can just grab it and bring to your
project. But what I'll be doing here is
basically using the other option which
is I'll go contract ls. Oh sorry it's a
ls and here I can see all the available
contracts in the open z. So I'll go
ahead and copy one. Let me see. I'll get
let's let's use the funible cap if I'm
not mistaken. I think that's a good one.
Let me just again check it's from. Okay.
So I'll use from. So stylish scaffold
generate contract from and I'll add it's
fun how do you write it? Funible cap.
Funible
funible
cap. Is that correct? I hope so. Yes.
let me see. Yes. We have a new contract
here. So if you look here we have the
contract funible cat. It was it was
imported in our repository. So let me go
ahead and also add it to our add it to
our configuration. So it can be built
and then we can generate a client and so
on. And let me have a look. Does it have
a constructor? Yes, it has a constructor
and expects a cap interfere. So let's go
to our do we have it open? No. Where is
it? Environments.
I'll go ahead and add a new contract. So
I'll use the same syntax we did for the
token  for the fun token. I'll just
token for the fun token. I'll just
copy this.  let me put it at the end.
copy this. let me put it at the end.
So I'll have a new one. And this one is
funo
kept. It's important that it matches the
name. Let me see how it's set in the
tunnel.
where is the tunnel? There you go.
Example. So it's fun cap example. Yes.
But it needs to match the  the final
But it needs to match the the final
file generated. So it should have the
underscore. So, French ball cap example.
There we go. Client true. And we also
want to
invoke the constructor right afterwards,
but it accepts a cap argument with an
integer. So, I'll just say the cap is
10,000. Just an arbitrary number. And
let's save. Let me see. Oh, sorry. I had
stopped the command here. So, npm
rundev.
Let's see if it identifies the changes
right away and and runs it.
It's running everything. Let me go back
here to see. There we go. But I think it
didn't deploy it yet. Let's wait a
little bit. Is it running? Let me see
this teller.
Hello. And so on. No, I think it's
stopped. So, I should have  run the
stopped. So, I should have run the
command before I updated it. Let's just
make a a small change so it detects the
change. I'll just add some comments
here. Maybe on this one. Oh, no. It's
still running. Sorry. There you go.
Still running. Still running.
Everything updated.
Blinking for a while. Don't worry. This
happens sometimes as we are removing and
adding packages. Let me just double
check if this is because we added a new
package that not was not  tracked. I
package that not was not tracked. I
know there is an open issue that the
team is working was working today around
how we are tracking the newly generated
packages. So sometimes we add a new
package and it might not identify in the
workspace. So we can so we just run the
npmi here at the root level and it will
identify. This is a quick workaround but
I know there they're patching it as we
are presenting this. And there you go.
That was it.  it's loading everything.
That was it. it's loading everything.
There you go. We see a new one here.
Funible cap example we have our token
it does it have an admin let me just
double check no it doesn't have an admin
so that means that I can just m with any
account so  let me check the total
account so let me check the total
supply before we start invoking this
contract and the total supply is indeed
zero so there are no units in existence
or running around so let's go ahead and
mint some so I'll just mint to the to
our  admin or to our main account
our admin or to our main account
directly and you open here. Copy.
Let's just use this one amount. Let's
just use a normal amount that's under
the cap. So, this one should be okay
because it's under the cap.
Loading. There we go. Execute it. Submit
it. If I get this account and check the
balance, simulate. Show details. And I
run down here. 5,000. So, the balance is
there. it was minted. So, let's go ahead
and try to mint  50,01.
and try to mint 50,01.
And this now shouldn't go ahead. So, if
I click both simulator submit, it fails
because the simulation fails because we
are hitting the cap. So, we should be
able to see here the details of the
failed simulation and what happened. So
as you see we just added a new contract
started playing around and you see
things gives us a lot of speed because
you can just start invoking everything
from the client and seeing the changes
right away. So I think this is very
powerful and should be very helpful for
new developers coming getting up to
speed and seeing how the implementation
is managing all these workflows and you
should be seeing some improvements
coming soon as we gather feedback and
start adding more functionality to it.
So, I'll pause for a second and take a
sip of water just to to lubricate my my
vocal cords. And Carson, I'm not sure if
we have any questions or if like to open
up for anyone.
>> I I think we pretty much caught up
questions, but  if anyone has
questions, but if anyone has
questions, please feel free to to ask.
I think this this is a really this is
a really great demo that shows how much
progress you've made on this. I love
that the tooling is built in. It makes
it super easy to debug and to develop
and add on to your smart contracts.
you don't need to have a ton of tooling
set up.  it's all built in. It makes
set up. it's all built in. It makes
it very very easy. So yeah, I  I I
it very very easy. So yeah, I I I
downloaded the and ran the the latest
that's at least the public one  last
that's at least the public one last
night and it was super easy to get up
and running as as soon as I I figured
out that I needed to have my my Docker
running.  I didn't have that. It
running. I didn't have that. It
was on pause. So  after that
was on pause. So after that
everything was pretty smooth and and I
and and there was  there was a comment
and and there was there was a comment
about about Stella Lab  you can
about about Stella Lab you can
actually connect Stella Lab to quick
start  that works even if you have
start that works even if you have
quick start and you have this running on
your local machine you can still use
the web-based stellar lab but but I
think most of the functionality that
that that I would be interested in you
already exposed those here like the
smart contracts, you can invoke them and
you can see the output. So most of the
functionality I use in cell lab is is
already included in in this in this
version. So yeah, amazing amazing job.
>> Awesome. It's great to hear that and I
invite everyone to play around, test,
share the feedback, especially people
participating in the hackathons. Like
this is a great starter for the
hackathons. They can really get up to
speed.
Yeah, I think   for hack meridian,
Yeah, I think for hack meridian,
we definitely need to do a big push to
get people going on this.  I we always
get people going on this. I we always
see when we do hackathons, we always see
some struggle a little bit  setting up
some struggle a little bit setting up
their environment, get everything
installed and sometimes they maybe spend
an hour getting things up and running
instead of starting to code or to decide
what to build. So this is really a fast
track to to get started  working on
track to to get started working on
your project and and start coding.
>> Yeah. And and we have some hidden gems
that I didn't even touch here because of
the time. But if I I I really suggest
you guys have a look. For example, we
have some hooks that allow you to
directly listen for specific events. So
if you're playing with events and
meeting events in your contract, you can
already in your front end start
listening for those and reacting
automatically. So you could make some
fancy stuff here. I think this could be
a next step for this explorer to have
some options to already list and see the
events coming up as you're making the
invocations. But this could be very
powerful.
>> Yeah. Great.
>> Awesome. Awesome. If you guys find
anything or have any any feedback, feel
free to share directly in the repository
or get get in touch with us.
>> Yeah. How is the best way? Let's say I
find a bug or something is not working.
What is the best way to to to let you
guys know?
>> I I encourage everyone to directly open
a niche on the repository because we are
definitely looking there every day. It
will be the quickest way, but we're also
on Discord. So on the developer Discord,
the developer community, we're always
there. So feel free to just tag us, me
or the team. We're always looking there.
>> Great.
Okay. If  there's no other questions,
Okay. If there's no other questions,
I would like to thank you so much for
giving this demo. This was a very
extensive demo. you really took us far
into into the scaffold stellar and it
was really great.  so yeah, thank you
was really great. so yeah, thank you
so much and I think we will probably do
another update  at a later time but
another update at a later time but
until then I I would encourage everyone
who builds on Stella to try it out.
It it's really impressive. I I love how
how much is included  how much you
how much is included how much you
don't need to set up manually and
integrating the tooling and and getting
to a point where you start to be
productive super fast. I think that's
that's that's a great experience.  so
that's that's a great experience. so
so so yeah, go ahead and try it out and
yeah, thank you for for listening in.
We will be back next Thursday. Thank you
everyone.